Add wellbeing resources and links (#71)
DFE-Digital/improve-school-workload-and-wellbeing: content/staff-wellbeing/staff-wellbeing-statement.md

---
title: Staff wellbeing statement
colour: blue
---

# Staff wellbeing statement

<strong class="govuk-tag">Example</strong>

{inset-text}

## School details

**School name**:  St Peter’s School    

**Location**: Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire

**Phase**: Secondary

**Number of pupils**: 1000

**Contact details**: Email the school office at <reception@stpetershuntingdon.org> 

{/inset-text}

<div class="govuk-grid-row dfe-width-container">
  <div class="govuk-grid-column-full">
    <div class="info-box">
      <div class="info-box__corner">
        <img src="/assets/images/bullseye.svg" alt="Bullseye icon">
      </div>
      <h2 class="govuk-heading-m">
        Impact and outcomes
      </h2>
      <p>
        Our united approach creates: 
        <ul>
          <li>
            a sense of belonging
          </li>
          <li> 
            a culture that is based upon our core wellbeing principles 
          </li>
          <li>
            an environment that recognises skills and encourages personal development
          </li>
          <li>
            an environment whereby employees feel they are listened to 
          </li>
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

> ## Background from HR Manager Rachel Boyall

Author: ```suggestion
## Background from Rachel Boyall, HR Manager
```

> ## Background from HR Manager Rachel Boyall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Background from Rachel Boyall, HR Manager
```

{inset-text}

The staff wellbeing statement outlined below was developed by our wellbeing focus group. In addition to the statement, the focus group: 

* offers support to staff 

* seeks feedback on how staff are feeling 

* shares resources 

* looks for ways to boost morale 

* uses staff absence to measure wellbeing  

{/inset-text}

## Our principles 

These principles are the cornerstone of our approach to wellbeing at St Peter’s: 

* because we care 

* because everyone matters 

* together we can make a difference 

* this is worth it 

* we are worth it  

* you are worth it 

## Staff wellbeing statement 

> St Peter’s recognises its responsibility for the health, safety and welfare of its employees, and understands that wellbeing and performance are linked. We are committed to fostering a culture of co-operation, trust and mutual respect, where all individuals are treated with dignity, and can work at their optimum level.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
St Peter’s recognises its responsibility for the health, safety and welfare of its employees, and understands that wellbeing and performance are linked. We foster a culture of co-operation, trust and mutual respect, where all individuals are treated with dignity and can work at their optimum level.
```

> We recognise that work-related stress has a negative impact on employees’ wellbeing and that it can take many forms, so it needs to be carefully monitored and addressed at an organisational level.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recognise that work-related stress has a negative impact on employees’ wellbeing and that it can take many forms. It needs to be carefully monitored and addressed at an organisational level.  
```

At St Peter’s we: 

> * carefully plan and agree work-life balance solutions including flexible working practices where possible and appropriate 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* carefully plan and agree work-life balance solutions, including flexible working practices where possible and appropriate 
```

> * ensure that the right people are recruited to the right jobs and that a good match is obtained between individuals recruited and job descriptions/specifications 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ensure that the right people are recruited to the right jobs. A good match should be obtained between the individuals recruited and job descriptions and specifications 
```

> * manage pressures which may affect employees, including the impact of workload, and anticipate likely problems, taking action to reduce the effects of these pressures where possible 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* manage pressures that may affect employees, including the impact of workload. We anticipate likely problems, taking action to reduce the effects of these pressures where possible 
```

* pay attention to any changes in employee performance or behaviour and promote sympathetic alertness to employees who show signs of being under stress   

> * create opportunities for employees to discuss concerns and enable employees to do so in a supportive environment, through one-to-one meetings and feedback sessions 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* create opportunities for employees to discuss concerns and enable employees to do so in a supportive environment. This can be through one-to-one meetings and feedback sessions 
```

* provide an Employment Assistant Programme (EAP), which offers a free 24-hour counselling service 

* put in place procedures for line managers to address concerns or absence due to work related stress 

* provide Occupational Health support to employees where appropriate   

> * carry out a risk assessment, where necessary, and especially when concerns have been raised, as soon as possible   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* carry out a risk assessment where necessary. Where concerns have been raised, they should be carried out as soon as possible   
```

> * ensure that when staff are absent, proportionate, and supportive contact is maintained with them, at a mutually agreed frequency 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ensure that when staff are absent, proportionate and supportive contact is maintained with them, at a mutually agreed frequency 
```
